gpt-commit(1) -- Auto-generate succinct commit messages using GPT-4
===================================================

## SYNOPSIS

**gptcommit** \[**-i**] \[**-p**] \[**-s**] \[**-l**]

## DESCRIPTION

**gpt-commit** is a CLI tool that leverages the GPT-4 model to auto-generate succinct commit messages by analyzing staged changes. It is designed to streamline the commit message creation process for developers, ensuring messages are concise yet informative.

## OPTIONS

- **-i**, **--interactive**
  Enables interactive mode, prompting the user for a commit message.

- **-p**, **--printOnly**
  Prints the suggested commit message without user interaction.

- **-s**, **--short**
  Utilizes a shorter prompt template for generating less detailed commit messages. This is the default setting.

- **-l**, **--long**
  Employs a longer prompt template for more detailed commit messages, which could be slightly more expensive.

## GETTING STARTED

1. Install the tool globally using Yarn:
   `yarn global add elliotberry/gpt-commit`

2. Set your OpenAI API key:
   `export OPENAI_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>`
   Tip: Add it to your `.zshrc` or equivalent shell configuration file.

3. Execute **gptcommit** within a repository folder where you have staged changes:
   `git add ./desired_file`
   Then run:
   `gptcommit`

## EXAMPLE

Running `gptcommit` might produce the following interaction:

    Suggested commit:
    
    "did basically nothing other than update the readme's spelling".
    
    This cost you $350.55. Do you want to use it?
    (Y)es, (p)rint, (n)ew message or (q)uit  [default=yes]

Responding with:

- **Y/yes/sí**: Commits the suggested message.
- **q/quit**: Exits the program.
- **n/new**: Requests another commit message suggestion.

## MESSAGE TEMPLATES

Customize commit message settings via `~/.config/configstore/gpt-commit.json`. Available templates:

- **Short**: Generates a brief summary of code changes within 50 characters.
- **Long**: Provides a detailed summary, including title and body separated by a blank line, with a focus on the overall changes.

## WARRANTY AND LIABILITY

This program is provided "as-is" and may not be fully reliable. Use at your own risk.

## AUTHORS

Developed by `elliotberry` with the support of OpenAI's GPT-4 model.
